INTERVIEW QUESTIONS

1- Tell me about yourself
Thank you for this opportunity. I will describe myself as a passionate and trustworthy employee who loves his work. I have the skills and knowledge to make a positive difference to your team, and my qualifications are a great fit for this industry. If you hire me I will be someone who gets his work completed quickly to a higher standard and also brings new and fresh ideas to the company to help you grow. 

2- How did you hear about this job?

3- Why do you want this job?
I want this job because I enjoy this type of work. We spend a lot of time at work and I want this time to be spend on something I love for a team I am proud of. Finally I want this job because it is in your company. You have good workplace values and you support your employees so they can reach their full potential. 

4- What are your greatest strengths?
My greatest strengths include loyalty and accountability and taking ownership of difficult problems to achieve success. My greatest strengths match the job descriptions and will ensure you see a potential difference in the company if you hire me.

5- What is your biggest weakness 
My biggest weakness is I find it difficult to say NO to people. When someone asks me for help I say YES without assessing my capacity to do extra work. I am aware of this weakness and taking positive actions to improve. 

6- Why do you want to work here?
I want to work here because you have a great reputation in the industry, your customer reviews are positive and people I have spoken with and who worked here previously have said great things about the management team and positive workplace culture. 

7- Why do you want to leave your job?
I want to leave my job because I am ready for a fresh challenge in a new job where I will be pushed and my skills will be put to good use while working alongside with driven, ambitious, and talented people who want to make a real difference in their work. 

8- What is your greatest accomplishment?
My greatest accomplishment was in my last job where I helped my team achieve the best ever sales for a new company product launch. We achieved the best sale by creating innovative ways to promote the product on social media and also contacting previous customers to give them a special discount. It was a great team effort and something I am very proud of. 

9- Describe yourself in 3 words
I will describe myself as passionate, trustworthy and knowledgeable. I am passionate meaning I will get more work completed than the average person. I am trustworthy, meaning you can always rely on me to do a great job. Finally, I am knowledgeable, meaning I can into this role and have an immediate and long lasting impact on the team. 

10- How do you prioritize your work?
I prioritize my work based on the company’s objectives. I write a list of jobs I am responsible for. I color-code the list so that each job is prioritized on urgency. Red jobs are urgent and come first. Orange jobs are second, and green jobs can be left for the end of the working day.

11- What do you do in your free time?
In my free time, I read, keep fit and active by attending the gym several times a week, and enjoy spending valuable time with my family. I am keen on self-development and enjoy studying online videos and training courses which helps improve my knowledge and ensure I am progressing personally and professionally.

12- How will you deal with a conflict with a co-worker? 
I would deal with a conflit by checking my own words and actions to ensure I wasn’t impacting the situation negatively. I would speak with my co-worker privately to establish the course of the conflict and work with him to reach a compromise for the team’s benefit.

13- What motivates you?
I am motivated by doing a great job for my team and employer because that empowers me to earn a good salary, meaning I can support my family. I am also motivated by keeping fit and healthy because that energized me and gives me good concentration levels.

14- Where do you see yourself in 5 years?
In five years, I hope to be working for your company. I would either be in the same role but have earned promotion to a higher level. In five Years, I would have experience across different company departments, be seen as a trusted, knowledgeable, and experienced team player, and be someone the company could call upon to help train new team members. 

15- What do you think makes a good co-worker? 
A good coworker should be pleasant to work with, good to be around, and positive whenever they encounter difficulties. Good coworkers are supportive, treat others with respect, and offer to help with tasks if someone in the team is struggling. 

16- How do you handle setbacks at work?
I handle setback with a positive attitude, resilience, and focus on the end goal. Whenever  I encounter a setback, I assess my options, quickly create a new plan, and set to work. Setbacks are normal in the workplace, but how you respond to them is important.

17- What are you looking for in the next job?
I am looking for a forward-thinking company to work for with a positive culture that encourages innovation and create thinking. I am looking for a positive manager and a positive team environment where everyone has a can-do attitude and where there is opportunities for everyone. 

18- Why should we hire you?
You should hire me because I am progressive, embrasse change with a positive attitude, support my coworkers to achieve the team’s goal, and take ownership of problems and challenges to achieve a successful outcome. 

19- How do you handle stress and pressure?
I handle stress and pressure by focusing on my tasks, creating a plan of action of what I need to do and when, blocking out distractions, and focusing intently on my responsibilities. Stress is a physical feeling I have control over, and I am confident it will never detract me from my goals. 

20- What are your salary expectations?
My salary expectations are $95,000 a year. I am worth $95,000 because I have a track record of achievement, which I will replicate for your company. I will be flexible in my job description, giving you a great return on your investment and I will take responsibility for my ongoing professional development to ensure I am always a valuable asset to my team. 

21- Do you have any questions for us?
Thank you. Yes, I have 3 questions I would like to ask please. Question number one: what are the plans for the company and what could I do in this role to help you achieve them? Question number two: can you tell me more about the team I would be a part of in this role? Question number three: what would my success in the position look like in twelve months from now? 

Is there any additional information you recommend our read to learn more about your company while I am waiting to find out the result of this interview? 